What is an attribute?
>> Property on an HTML element
>> Property in the HTML element if
the HTML element is a noun and
then the attributes are adjectives, so
it's helpful to have a link with an a but
it doesn't tell us anything if
we don't tell it where to go.
So, href winds up being an attribute,
target is an attribute,
title is an attribute.
All of those things are attributes,
and the amazing thing is
that in CSS we can select by attribute,
instead of selecting by element.
Sometimes this is incredibly useful I have
some cool tricks to show you with this
So first of all, there are many
kinds of attribute selectors.
Those of you who like regular expressions,
you're gonna love attribute selectors
because there's many different ways that
you can write this to select different
parts of these particular
kinds of attributes.
So let's go through what all of those are.
Okay, so let's start with what's
called the simple attribute value.
And basically, what the simple
attribute value is going to do,
is simply test if that
particular attribute is present.
So if I were to, for example,
let's test for the title attribute,
and you're gonna put these in
square brackets like this.
Okay, so square brackets, and
here I've put in the title attribute.
So you just put in for
the simple attribute value,
just put in the name of
the attribute that you're selecting.
And then.
You can style it however you want, so
let's say background-color: green.
So those three things on the page have
a title attribute associated with them.
Doesn't say anything about what
the value of that title attribute is?
It just says that it has
the title attribute.
Make sense?
So that's a super simple one.
Where we just test for
is something present or not.
Now, what if you want to look for
an attribute that has an exact value?
This is where it starts to
get a little bit weird.
So I'll go through a few of these here.
So I want the one let's see,
I have a title here in line five
in this link I have a title
of unguessable, okay?
So let's say that I want to select that
a title with a value of unguessable.
Shockingly, it looks just like that.
Now you can read that link again.
Okay, so those other two links
that I have here that had title
attributes did not match
the string unguessable.
Here's the thing for those of you who are
concerned with the exact attribute value.
It must match exactly letter for
letter, if there's a space, and
we have more blah, blah in this title,
because of course you can put in long
phrases in your title attribute.
All of those words in that
order are spelled that way,
with all those spaces and
punctuation it must be an exact match.
It can be partial match, it can be
anything order than exactly that, okay?
So that is what the exact attribute
value is, they don't float around.
What did I have for my other titles?
Okay, so here I have a line
if Guess here on line 26.
And that is, here's the thing and
hiding in this one.
Okay, so we have Guess, and we have
Guess this, so guess is here on line 26.
Guess this is on line 33.
And then we had unguessable.
So the whole string unguessable
does not match those particular
things that come later, even though it
has some of those letters in common.
All right, so
then we'll do my other favorite one, so
these are the three that I use.
This is the attribute present or not
that's a useful one the exact match that's
a useful one I use that a lot in my code.
And this last one I also use a lot of my
code, and this is the partial match comes
before comes after as long as it contains
part of the string, it will be a match.
So this is the technical name,
is the arbitrary.
Substring attribute value.
And shockingly, title*= star for
the wild card equals let's just say guess.
And let us, what we got going on here.
Let us put in a.
Border 5 pixels dashed red.
Okay.
So notice that it put a border around
the one with the green background.
Let me pick a different color black,
I put a border around the very first
link up there at the top of the page.
Guess was part of that string but
notice that it did not match later in
the document where I had the word guess,
but it was a capital letter.
Okay, so
it has to match in capitalization as well.
So if I change this to a capital G for
Guess,
then the last two are going
to be selected instead.
Make sense?
Okay, so that's what that is.
Then we have the two that
I think of is for nerds.
So you can also select
a beginning substring, or
you can select an ending substring.
So I'll just put that here
in your notes as well.
So beginning substring selector.
Would look like this.
Title would be.
Caret equals.
In other words it's gonna start with this,
background-color: orange.
It will start with it.
>> One is Guess and one is Guess this.
>> All right, and
the other one is Guess this yep, and
then I have an ending substring selector.
Ending substring selector,
which is gonna get title.
Dollar sign equals this.
Background-color: brown.
Color yellow, okay, so
that will select only the very last one
at the bottom because it ends with this.
So let me open up my CSS window here,
so you can see all of these.
So just a quick review on that.
So the first one simple
attribute value just test for
the presence or
absence of a given attribute.
It's not gonna test as to any of its
value, just test if it's present.
The exact attribute value is going
to guess like that string with that
capitalization it is an exact match.
So by the way, if I said,
capital Guess on this one,
it would still not necessarily
select both of these.
It's selects this one down here,
which has just guesses the full value,
but Guess this the title with Guess this,
it doesn't match
that because this is still part
of the value of that attribute.
And so it won't match that.
Okay, let me go back to what that was.
All right, the arbitrary substring
attribute value beginning ending,
it doesn't care.
It just looks for the string somewhere
inside of the value of that particular
attribute, which is really nice.
And this tends to be the one
that I use all the time.
But I know that we have a lot of hardcore
nerds out there who want it like
a beginning substring or
an ending substring.
So those exist as well and if you saw me
here, I had to like really read my notes
it's because I never used them, but
they exist, so it may be useful to you.